--- Real News 1 ---
Kerry to go to Paris in gesture of sympathy U.S. Secretary of State John F. Kerry said Monday that he will stop in Paris later this week, amid criticism that no top American officials attended Sunday’s unity march against terrorism.

Kerry said he expects to arrive in Paris Thursday evening, as he heads home after a week abroad. He said he will fly to France at the conclusion of a series of meetings scheduled for Thursday in Sofia, Bulgaria. He plans to meet the next day with Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius and President Francois Hollande, then return to Washington.

The visit by Kerry, who has family and childhood ties to the country and speaks fluent French, could address some of the criticism that the United States snubbed France in its darkest hour in many years.

The French press on Monday was filled with questions about why neither President Obama nor Kerry attended Sunday’s march, as about 40 leaders of other nations did. Obama was said to have stayed away because his own security needs can be taxing on a country, and Kerry had prior commitments.

Among roughly 40 leaders who did attend was Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, no stranger to intense security, who marched beside Hollande through the city streets. The highest ranking U.S. officials attending the march were Jane Hartley, the ambassador to France, and Victoria Nuland, the assistant secretary of state for European affairs. Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. was in Paris for meetings with law enforcement officials but did not participate in the march.

Kerry spent Sunday at a business summit hosted by India’s prime minister, Narendra Modi. The United States is eager for India to relax stringent laws that function as barriers to foreign investment and hopes Modi’s government will act to open the huge Indian market for more American businesses.

In a news conference, Kerry brushed aside criticism that the United States had not sent a more senior official to Paris as “quibbling a little bit.” He noted that many staffers of the American Embassy in Paris attended the march, including the ambassador. He said he had wanted to be present at the march himself but could not because of his prior commitments in India.

“But that is why I am going there on the way home, to make it crystal clear how passionately we feel about the events that have taken place there,” he said.

“And I don’t think the people of France have any doubts about America’s understanding of what happened, of our personal sense of loss and our deep commitment to the people of France in this moment of trauma.”...

--- Real News 2 ---
The Battle of New York: Why This Primary Matters It's primary day in New York and front-runners Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump are leading in the polls.

Trump is now vowing to win enough delegates to clinch the Republican nomination and prevent a contested convention. But Sens.Ted Cruz, R-Texas, Bernie Sanders, D-Vt., and Ohio Gov. John Kasich and aren't giving up just yet.

A big win in New York could tip the scales for both the Republican and Democratic front-runners in this year's race for the White House. Clinton and Trump have each suffered losses in recent contests, shifting the momentum to their rivals.

"We have won eight out of the last nine caucuses and primaries! Cheer!" Sanders recently told supporters.

While wins in New York for Trump and Clinton are expected, the margins of those victories are also important.

Trump needs to capture more than 50 percent of the vote statewide if he wants to be positioned to win all of the state's 95 GOP delegates. That would put him one step closer to avoiding a contested convention.

"We've got to vote and you know Cruz is way, way down in the polls," Trump urged supporters.

Meanwhile, Sanders is hoping for a close race in the Empire State. A loss by 10 points means he'll need to win 80 percent of the remaining delegates to clinch the nomination.

Despite a predicted loss in New York, Cruz hasn't lost momentum. He's hoping to sweep up more delegates this weekend while he's talking about how he can win in November.

"Because if I'm the nominee, we win the General Election," Cruz promised his supporters. "We're beating Hillary in the key swing states, we're beating Hillary with Independents, we're beating Hillary with young people."

For now, Cruz, Kasich, and Sanders have all moved on from New York to other states. Trump and Clinton are the only two staying in their home state to watch the results come in....

Real news 3
The Kentucky senator, who announced his candidacy for the White House on Tuesday morning, doesn't fit neatly into the molds of either party.

Socially liberal on issues of crime and punishment — especially when it comes to drug sentencing — against a federal ban on same-sex marriage, and no foreign policy hawk, he's not your prototypical Republican.

As a fiscal conservative and an opponent of abortion rights, though, he's certainly no Democrat either.

""It's time for a new way, a new set of ideas and a new leader,"" Paul says in a Web video, with a heavy metal soundtrack, previewing his presidential campaign.

Paul fits more with libertarians. And, though he is the scion of the last carrier of the torch of ""liberty,"" he's also not quite his father's libertarian.

Paul's father, the former Rep. Ron, ran for president three times before retiring. The elder Paul, 79, was always regarded as something of a gadfly, an outspoken fresh voice in the Republican primary with a passionate following of young libertarians.

Though Paul did not win a single state in 2008 or 2012, when measured by Election Day voting percentage, he routinely finished in the top three. In fact, he finished a solid second behind Romney in the critical early state of New Hampshire.

But his band of young, engaged and determined Paul-ites proved one thing — they could organize. Ron Paul not only won straw poll after straw poll at the Conservative Political Action Conference and elsewhere, he also won the most delegates in several states, including Iowa. Though Paul finished third in vote total in the Hawkeye State, his campaign engineered what amounted to a takeover of the state Republican Party apparatus.

""He has a number of assets,"" said Stu Rothenberg, founder of the Rothenberg Political Report. ""He has terrific fundraising potential. He has an army of supporters who will run into a burning building to vote for him.""

Rand Paul has tried to use those supporters to help build on his father's foundation, reaching out to minority voters with an emphasis on criminal justice reform and to young audiences — like one in New Hampshire last year — with an appeal based on privacy and civil liberties.

""How many people here have a cellphone?"" Paul asked. ""How many people think it's none of the government's damn business what you do on your cell phone?""

""If I had to fill a large lecture room at my campus, I would bet a lot that Rand Paul could fill that room with young libertarian-minded conservatives,"" said Dante Scala, a political scientist at the University of New Hampshire. ""Of that I have little doubt.""

Though Rand Paul can fill a room with young libertarians in similar ways that his father could, he isn't a carbon copy of his dad. Paul has adjusted some of his policies to fit the mainstream of the GOP a bit better.

Paul has emphasized where he agrees with evangelical Christians on gay marriage, telling a group of pastors last month that the First Amendment says to keep government out of religion, not religion out of government. And, in moves that show he understands the GOP has returned to its hawkish roots since the rise of the self-declared Islamic State militant group, he has changed his tune on defense spending, proposing $190 billion more for the Pentagon. And the second day of his presidential rollout finds him in South Carolina — in front of the aircraft carrier, the U.S.S. Yorktown.

Those moves toward the mainstream of the party may lose Paul some diehard libertarians, but, says David Boaz of the Cato Institute, most libertarians are thrilled.

""I think Rand Paul is the most libertarian major presidential candidate that I can remember seeing,"" said Boaz, who's new book is called The Libertarian Mind, ""so it tells you that there is a constituency that wants this more libertarian approach.""

Boaz sees Paul's adjustments as necessary and practical.

Real News 4
Supreme Court declares same-sex couples' 'fundamental right' to marry,"In a decision with profound implications, the Supreme Court asserted that under the US Constitution legal marriage may not be denied to same-sex couples, extending this right to all 50 states.

As yet another general joins Trump's team, what does the pick reveal?

From left, Annie Katz of the University of Michigan, Zaria Cummings of Michigan State University, Spencer Perry of Berkeley, Calif., and Justin Maffett of Dartmouth University, celebrate outside of the Supreme Court in Washington, Friday after the court declared that same-sex couples have a right to marry anywhere in the US.

In a landmark decision, the US Supreme Court on Friday ruled that gay men and lesbians enjoy a fundamental right to marry and that none of the 50 states has the power to defy that constitutional guarantee of freedom and equal protection.

In a 5-to-4 decision, the high court issued the constitutional equivalent of a grand-slam homerun for same-sex couples across the United States.

“The right to marry is a fundamental right inherent in the liberty of the person, and under the Due Process and Equal Protection Clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment couples of the same-sex may not be deprived of that right and that liberty,” Justice Anthony Kennedy wrote in the majority opinion.

“The court now holds that same-sex couples may exercise the fundamental right to marry,” he declared. “No longer may this liberty be denied to them.”

The high court also ruled that in addition to issuing licenses to same-sex couples, all 50 states must recognize the legitimacy of same-sex marriages performed in any other state.

Currently, 37 states recognize same-sex marriages, while 13 states had maintained the traditional definition of marriage as a union between one man and one woman.

The high court decision represents a major advance for civil and equal rights for the lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) community. It marks the continued emergence of that community from its closeted, second-class existence for much of human history. And it establishes a firm legal foundation upon which gay rights advocates will push for broader freedoms, equality, and protections.

At the same time, Justice Kennedy’s majority opinion marks a significant setback for conservatives seeking to maintain the federalist structure of government. Rather than allowing the contentious social issue of marriage to be decided by the people and their elected representatives on a state-by-state basis, the high court decided instead to constitutionalize the issue of same-sex marriage and answer the question itself.

The dissenting justices predict that that court’s actions in cutting off democratic debate over the issue will inflame opposition, rather than lead to national healing and greater tolerance. In addition, the decision sets the stage for more contentious battles ahead between gay rights activists and religious and social conservatives, they warn.

“When decisions are reached through democratic means, some people will inevitably be disappointed with the results. But those whose views do not prevail at least know that they have had their say, and accordingly are – in the tradition of our political culture – reconciled to the result of a fair and honest debate,” Chief Justice John Roberts wrote in a dissenting opinion.

That democratic dynamic was cut short by the majority decision, the chief justice said.

“By deciding this question under the Constitution, the court removes it from the realm of democratic decision,” Roberts said. “There will be consequences to shutting down the political process on an issue of such profound significance. Closing debate tends to close minds.”

Kennedy dismissed such concerns. “Of course, the Constitution contemplates that democracy is the appropriate process for change,” he said, “so long as that process does not abridge fundamental rights.”

When fundamental rights are at stake, he said, the court has a duty to address the issue.

Kennedy said that marriage was a keystone of the social order in America and that it was intolerable to exclude gay men and lesbians from full participation in that order.

“It demeans gays and lesbians for the state to lock them out of a central institution of the nation’s society,” he said.

“The limitation of marriage to opposite-sex couples may long have seemed natural and just, but its inconsistency with the central meaning of the fundamental right to marry is not manifest,” Kennedy said.  “With that knowledge must come the recognition that laws excluding same-sex couples from the marriage right impose stigma and injury of the kind prohibited by our basic charter.”

In his dissent, Chief Justice Roberts called the majority decision “an act of will, not legal judgment.”

“The right it announces has no basis in the Constitution or this court’s precedent,” he said.

“If you are among the many Americans – of whatever sexual orientation – who favor expanding same-sex marriage, by all means celebrate today’s decision,” the chief justice said.

“Celebrate the achievement of a desired goal. Celebrate the opportunity for a new expression of commitment to a partner. Celebrate the availability of new benefits,” Roberts said.

“But do not celebrate the Constitution,” he said. “It had nothing to with it.”

The chief justice said the Constitution leaves to the people and their elected representatives the authority to define marriage.

“The fundamental right to marry does not include a right to make a state change its definition of marriage. And a state’s decision to maintain the meaning of marriage that has persisted in every culture throughout human history can hardly be called irrational,” Roberts said.

“In short, our Constitution does not enact any one theory of marriage. The people of a state are free to expand marriage to include same-sex couples, or to retain the historic definition,” he said.

Friday’s decision stems from lawsuits filed by same-sex couples in four states – Ohio, Michigan, Kentucky, and Tennessee – challenging their exclusion from traditional marriage laws.

Some couples sued to be allowed to marry. Others sued to have same-sex marriages performed in other states recognized in their new state of residence.

Lawyers for the states had argued that marriage is aimed at heading-off the societal problem of unwed mothers and fatherless children. They argued that it has existed through much of human history to encourage a man and woman to remain together as a family to raise their biological offspring.

Lawyers for same-sex couples dismissed that explanation, arguing that allowing same-sex couples to marry would in no way undercut the ability of opposite-sex couples to marry and raise their own children.

Kennedy’s majority decision comes less than two months after he commented during oral argument about the difficulty of a judge ordering the nation to change a definition of marriage that had existed throughout most of human history.

“This definition has been with us for millennia,” Kennedy said during oral argument in late April. “And it’s very difficult for the court to say, oh, well, we know better.”

But that is, essentially, what Justice Kennedy did on Friday.

In a dissent, Justice Antonin Scalia said the majority opinion represents a threat to American democracy by a majority of nine lawyers on the Supreme Court who claim the power to create liberties to be protected under the Constitution.

Scalia said when the high court wields power to revise the Constitution it robs the American people of the freedom to govern themselves.

“Until the courts put a stop to it, public debate over same-sex marriage displayed American democracy at its best,” Scalia said. He said the court’s decision to end the debate and resolve the issue itself was a “naked judicial claim to legislative – indeed super-legislative – power.”

“A system of government that makes the people subordinate to a committee of nine unelected lawyers does not deserve to be called a democracy,” Scalia said.

In his majority opinion, Kennedy said that if rights were defined only by those who exercised them, new groups would never be able to invoke those rights once they were denied. He said the right to same-sex marriage was part of the liberty promised in the Fourteenth Amendment.

“The right to marry is fundamental as a matter of history and tradition, but rights come not from ancient sources alone. They rise, too, from a better informed understanding of how constitutional imperatives define a liberty that remains urgent in our own era,” Kennedy said.

“Many who deem same-sex marriage to be wrong reach that conclusion based on decent and honorable religious or philosophic premises, and neither they nor their beliefs are disparaged here.”

“But when that sincere, personal opposition becomes enacted law and public policy, the necessary consequence is to put the imprimatur of the state itself on an exclusion that soon demeans or stigmatizes those whose own liberty is then denied,” Kennedy said.

“Under the Constitution, same-sex couples seek in marriage the same legal treatment as opposite-sex couples, and it would disparage their choices and diminish their personhood to deny them this right,” he said.

Joining Kennedy in the majority were Justices Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Stephen Breyer, Sonia Sotomayor, and Elena Kagan.

Dissenting opinions were filed by Chief Justice Roberts, and Justices Scalia, Clarence Thomas, and Samuel Alito.",
Real News 5
Hillary Clinton to turn over private email server to Justice,"Washington (CNN) Hillary Clinton agreed to turn over her private email server to authorities on Tuesday, the same day an intelligence community inspector general told congressional committees that at least five emails from the server did contain classified information.

The decision to hand over the server, as well as a thumb drive of all her work-related emails to the Justice Department, represents an effort to blunt an expanding probe into her use of a private email account.

Clinton, now the Democratic presidential front-runner, ""directed her team to give her email server that was used during her tenure as (secretary of state) to the Department of Justice, as well as a thumb drive containing copies of her emails already provided to the State Department,"" her spokesman, Nick Merrill, told CNN early Tuesday evening. ""She pledged to cooperate with the government's security inquiry, and if there are more questions, we will continue to address them.""

After conceding the presidency to Trump in a phone call earlier, Clinton addresses supporters and campaign workers in New York on Wednesday, November 9. Her defeat marked a stunning end to a campaign that appeared poised to make her the first woman elected US president.

Clinton addresses a campaign rally in Cleveland on November 6, two days before Election Day. She went on to lose Ohio -- and the election -- to her Republican opponent, Donald Trump.

Clinton addresses a campaign rally in Cleveland on November 6, two days before Election Day. She went on to lose Ohio -- and the election -- to her Republican opponent, Donald Trump.

Clinton arrives at a 9/11 commemoration ceremony in New York on September 11. Clinton, who was diagnosed with pneumonia two days before, left early after feeling ill. A video appeared to show her stumble as Secret Service agents helped her into a van.

Obama hugs Clinton after he gave a speech at the Democratic National Convention in Philadelphia. The president said Clinton was ready to be commander in chief. ""For four years, I had a front-row seat to her intelligence, her judgment and her discipline,"" he said, referring to her stint as his secretary of state.

Obama hugs Clinton after he gave a speech at the Democratic National Convention in Philadelphia. The president said Clinton was ready to be commander in chief. ""For four years, I had a front-row seat to her intelligence, her judgment and her discipline,"" he said, referring to her stint as his secretary of state.

After Clinton became the Democratic Party's presumptive nominee, this photo was posted to her official Twitter account. ""To every little girl who dreams big: Yes, you can be anything you want -- even president,"" Clinton said. ""Tonight is for you.""

After Clinton became the Democratic Party's presumptive nominee, this photo was posted to her official Twitter account. ""To every little girl who dreams big: Yes, you can be anything you want -- even president,"" Clinton said. ""Tonight is for you.""

Clinton walks on her stage with her family after winning the New York primary in April.

Clinton walks on her stage with her family after winning the New York primary in April.

U.S. Sen. Bernie Sanders shares a lighthearted moment with Clinton during a Democratic presidential debate in October 2015. It came after Sanders gave his take on the Clinton email scandal. ""The American people are sick and tired of hearing about the damn emails,"" Sanders said. ""Enough of the emails. Let's talk about the real issues facing the United States of America.""

U.S. Sen. Bernie Sanders shares a lighthearted moment with Clinton during a Democratic presidential debate in October 2015. It came after Sanders gave his take on the Clinton email scandal. ""The American people are sick and tired of hearing about the damn emails,"" Sanders said. ""Enough of the emails. Let's talk about the real issues facing the United States of America.""

Clinton testifies about the Benghazi attack during a House committee meeting in October 2015. ""I would imagine I have thought more about what happened than all of you put together,"" she said during the 11-hour hearing. ""I have lost more sleep than all of you put together. I have been wracking my brain about what more could have been done or should have been done."" Months earlier, Clinton had acknowledged a ""systemic breakdown"" as cited by an Accountability Review Board, and she said that her department was taking additional steps to increase security at U.S. diplomatic facilities.

Clinton testifies about the Benghazi attack during a House committee meeting in October 2015. ""I would imagine I have thought more about what happened than all of you put together,"" she said during the 11-hour hearing. ""I have lost more sleep than all of you put together. I have been wracking my brain about what more could have been done or should have been done."" Months earlier, Clinton had acknowledged a ""systemic breakdown"" as cited by an Accountability Review Board, and she said that her department was taking additional steps to increase security at U.S. diplomatic facilities.

Clinton ducks after a woman threw a shoe at her while she was delivering remarks at a recycling trade conference in Las Vegas in 2014.

Clinton ducks after a woman threw a shoe at her while she was delivering remarks at a recycling trade conference in Las Vegas in 2014.

Obama and Clinton bow during the transfer-of-remains ceremony marking the return of four Americans, including U.S. Ambassador Christopher Stevens, who were killed in Benghazi, Libya, in September 2012.

Obama and Clinton bow during the transfer-of-remains ceremony marking the return of four Americans, including U.S. Ambassador Christopher Stevens, who were killed in Benghazi, Libya, in September 2012.

Clinton arrives for a group photo before a forum with the Gulf Cooperation Council in March 2012. The forum was held in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.

Clinton arrives for a group photo before a forum with the Gulf Cooperation Council in March 2012. The forum was held in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.

Clinton checks her Blackberry inside a military plane after leaving Malta in October 2011. In 2015, The New York Times reported that Clinton exclusively used a personal email account during her time as secretary of state. The account, fed through its own server, raises security and preservation concerns. Clinton later said she used a private domain out of ""convenience,"" but admits in retrospect ""it would have been better"" to use multiple emails.

Clinton checks her Blackberry inside a military plane after leaving Malta in October 2011. In 2015, The New York Times reported that Clinton exclusively used a personal email account during her time as secretary of state. The account, fed through its own server, raises security and preservation concerns. Clinton later said she used a private domain out of ""convenience,"" but admits in retrospect ""it would have been better"" to use multiple emails.

In this photo provided by the White House, Obama, Clinton, Biden and other members of the national security team receive an update on the mission against Osama bin Laden in May 2011.

In this photo provided by the White House, Obama, Clinton, Biden and other members of the national security team receive an update on the mission against Osama bin Laden in May 2011.

Obama is flanked by Clinton and Vice President-elect Joe Biden at a news conference in Chicago in December 2008. He had designated Clinton to be his secretary of state.

Obama is flanked by Clinton and Vice President-elect Joe Biden at a news conference in Chicago in December 2008. He had designated Clinton to be his secretary of state.

Obama and Clinton talk on the plane on their way to a rally in Unity, New Hampshire, in June 2008. She had recently ended her presidential campaign and endorsed Obama.

Obama and Clinton talk on the plane on their way to a rally in Unity, New Hampshire, in June 2008. She had recently ended her presidential campaign and endorsed Obama.

Clinton and another presidential hopeful, U.S. Sen. Barack Obama, applaud at the start of a Democratic debate in 2007.

Clinton and another presidential hopeful, U.S. Sen. Barack Obama, applaud at the start of a Democratic debate in 2007.

Clinton announces in February 2000 that she will seek the U.S. Senate seat in New York. She was elected later that year.

Clinton announces in February 2000 that she will seek the U.S. Senate seat in New York. She was elected later that year.

President Clinton makes a statement at the White House in December 1998, thanking members of Congress who voted against his impeachment. The Senate trial ended with an acquittal in February 1999.

President Clinton makes a statement at the White House in December 1998, thanking members of Congress who voted against his impeachment. The Senate trial ended with an acquittal in February 1999.

The first family walks with their dog, Buddy, as they leave the White House for a vacation in August 1998.

The first family walks with their dog, Buddy, as they leave the White House for a vacation in August 1998.

Clinton looks on as her husband discusses the Monica Lewinsky scandal in the Roosevelt Room of the White House on January 26, 1998. Clinton declared, ""I did not have sexual relations with that woman."" In August of that year, Clinton testified before a grand jury and admitted to having ""inappropriate intimate contact"" with Lewinsky, but he said it did not constitute sexual relations because they had not had intercourse. He was impeached in December on charges of perjury and obstruction of justice.

Clinton looks on as her husband discusses the Monica Lewinsky scandal in the Roosevelt Room of the White House on January 26, 1998. Clinton declared, ""I did not have sexual relations with that woman."" In August of that year, Clinton testified before a grand jury and admitted to having ""inappropriate intimate contact"" with Lewinsky, but he said it did not constitute sexual relations because they had not had intercourse. He was impeached in December on charges of perjury and obstruction of justice.

The Clintons dance on a beach in the U.S. Virgin Islands in January 1998. Later that month, Bill Clinton was accused of having a sexual relationship with former White House intern Monica Lewinsky.

The Clintons dance on a beach in the U.S. Virgin Islands in January 1998. Later that month, Bill Clinton was accused of having a sexual relationship with former White House intern Monica Lewinsky.

The first lady holds up a Grammy Award, which she won for her audiobook ""It Takes a Village"" in 1997.

The first lady holds up a Grammy Award, which she won for her audiobook ""It Takes a Village"" in 1997.

The Clintons hug as Bill is sworn in for a second term as President.

The Clintons hug as Bill is sworn in for a second term as President.

Clinton waves to the media in January 1996 as she arrives for an appearance before a grand jury in Washington. The first lady was subpoenaed to testify as a witness in the investigation of the Whitewater land deal in Arkansas. The Clintons' business investment was investigated, but ultimately they were cleared of any wrongdoing.

Clinton waves to the media in January 1996 as she arrives for an appearance before a grand jury in Washington. The first lady was subpoenaed to testify as a witness in the investigation of the Whitewater land deal in Arkansas. The Clintons' business investment was investigated, but ultimately they were cleared of any wrongdoing.

During the 1992 presidential campaign, Clinton jokes with her husband's running mate, Al Gore, and Gore's wife, Tipper, aboard a campaign bus.

During the 1992 presidential campaign, Clinton jokes with her husband's running mate, Al Gore, and Gore's wife, Tipper, aboard a campaign bus.

In June 1992, Clinton uses a sewing machine designed to eliminate back and wrist strain. She had just given a speech at a convention of the International Ladies' Garment Workers Union.

In June 1992, Clinton uses a sewing machine designed to eliminate back and wrist strain. She had just given a speech at a convention of the International Ladies' Garment Workers Union.

Bill Clinton comforts his wife on the set of ""60 Minutes"" after a stage light broke loose from the ceiling and knocked her down in January 1992.

Bill Clinton comforts his wife on the set of ""60 Minutes"" after a stage light broke loose from the ceiling and knocked her down in January 1992.

The Clintons celebrate Bill's inauguration in Little Rock, Arkansas, in 1991. He was governor from 1983 to 1992, when he was elected President.

The Clintons celebrate Bill's inauguration in Little Rock, Arkansas, in 1991. He was governor from 1983 to 1992, when he was elected President.

Arkansas' first lady, now using the name Hillary Rodham Clinton, wears her inaugural ball gown in 1985.

Arkansas' first lady, now using the name Hillary Rodham Clinton, wears her inaugural ball gown in 1985.

In 1975, Rodham married Bill Clinton, whom she met at Yale Law School. He became the governor of Arkansas in 1978. In 1980, the couple had a daughter, Chelsea.

In 1975, Rodham married Bill Clinton, whom she met at Yale Law School. He became the governor of Arkansas in 1978. In 1980, the couple had a daughter, Chelsea.

Rodham was a lawyer on the House Judiciary Committee, whose work led to impeachment charges against President Richard Nixon in 1974.

Rodham was a lawyer on the House Judiciary Committee, whose work led to impeachment charges against President Richard Nixon in 1974.

Before marrying Bill Clinton, she was Hillary Rodham. Here she attends Wellesley College in Massachusetts. Her commencement speech at Wellesley's graduation ceremony in 1969 attracted national attention. After graduating, she attended Yale Law School.

Before marrying Bill Clinton, she was Hillary Rodham. Here she attends Wellesley College in Massachusetts. Her commencement speech at Wellesley's graduation ceremony in 1969 attracted national attention. After graduating, she attended Yale Law School.

Hillary Clinton accepts the Democratic Party's nomination for president at the Democratic National Convention in Philadelphia on July 28. The former first lady, U.S. senator and secretary of state was the first woman to lead the presidential ticket of a major political party.

Hillary Clinton accepts the Democratic Party's nomination for president at the Democratic National Convention in Philadelphia on July 28. The former first lady, U.S. senator and secretary of state was the first woman to lead the presidential ticket of a major political party.

Merrill said in the meantime, Clinton's team ""has worked with the State Department to ensure her emails are stored in a safe and secure manner.""

The FBI, which is handling the matter, declined to comment Tuesday evening. David E. Kendall, Clinton's lawyer, did not immediately return messages seeking comment.

A senior Clinton campaign aide said the server hadn't yet changed hands as of Tuesday evening and Clinton's team is working with the Justice Department to arrange the logistics of the handover. The thumb drive, meanwhile, has been turned over. And Kendall, the aide said, has followed State Department guidance on safekeeping.

Clinton's campaign believes there are no emails from her State Department tenure on the server, since it was wiped clean after she turned over her work-related emails to the State Department, the aide said.

The aide said it's the Clinton campaign's understanding that the Justice Department isn't looking to reconstruct the server's history, but is instead concerned about the security of the emails today, since some are now classified, though they weren't classified or labeled as such at the time.

For Clinton, the move -- which Republicans like House Speaker John Boehner have urged for months -- indicates her campaign sees a growing risk in the issue of her use of a private email server, which has stoked concerns about her trustworthiness.

""It's about time,"" Boehner said in a statement Tuesday night.

Since news broke in March of her use of a personal email address on a server kept in her Chappaqua, New York, home, Clinton has insisted that she's turned over all of her work-related emails to the State Department and deleted all others -- but wouldn't turn over her server to the government.

Clinton has been dogged by poll numbers showing that more Americans, by a margin of about 20 percentage points, say she's not trustworthy rather than trustworthy. A late July CNN/ORC poll found that 58% of all registered voters say it is extremely important that the next president be honest and trustworthy.

Rep. Trey Gowdy, who chairs the House Select Committee on Benghazi and has pushed for Clinton's emails for months, claimed credit for her decision to turn over the server.

""The revelation that Secretary Clinton exclusively used private email for official public business, and the multitude of issues that emanated from her decision, including this most recent one, demonstrates what can happen when Congress and those equally committed to exposing the truth, doggedly pursue facts and follow them,"" he said in a statement.

Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley, R-Iowa, said Clinton waited ""a long time"" before turning the server over.

""That's a long time for top secret classified information to be held by an unauthorized person outside of an approved, secure government facility,"" he said in a statement. ""I look forward to the FBI answering my questions so the American people can be assured that everything has been done to protect our national security interests and hold accountable anyone who broke the rules.""

Still, it's clear the GOP won't stop hitting Clinton on the campaign trail, accusing her of secrecy over her decision to wait five months to turn over the server.

Republican National Committee Chairman Reince Priebus said in a statement Tuesday night that releasing the server does little to answer questions about Clinton's honesty.

""If Hillary Clinton believed in honesty and transparency, she would have turned over her secret server months ago to an independent arbiter, not as a last resort and to the Obama Justice Department,"" he said. ""Of course, if she really cares about transparency, she would never have had a secret server in the first place.""

Clinton's decision to hand over the server comes as the intelligence community's inspector general now says at least five emails stored on Clinton's server contained classified information. The documents were from a ""limited sampling"" of her emails and among those 40 reviewed, said the inspector general, Charles McCullough III.

On Tuesday, McCullough sent four of the emails to chairs of several congressional committees. In a cover letter, he said two of the four emails included information that has now been classified up to top secret.

One of the five emails has since been declassified because it was no longer time-sensitive. The intelligence community maintains the remaining two contained classified material, but is deferring to the State Department on whether they should be identified as such.

McCullough said in the past that ""none of the emails we reviewed had classification or dissemination markings,"" but that some ""should have been handled as classified, appropriately marked, and transmitted via a secure network."" The State Department has told McCullough that ""there are potentially hundreds of classified emails within the approximately 30,000 provided by former Secretary Clinton.""

Republicans shared exclusively with CNN Tuesday a review of those emails that the State Department had released, which they said showed Clinton and her aides sent information that would later be classified to six people's private email addresses. They include former Deputy Secretary of State Bill Burns; Cheryl Mills, who was Clinton's chief of staff at the State Department; and Jake Sullivan, who served as Clinton's top foreign policy adviser. Clinton also emailed information that would later be classified to close confidant Sidney Blumenthal, whose communications with Clinton about Libya have become a focus of the House committee investigating the 2012 Benghazi attacks.

""The fact that classified information was sent to and from Hillary Clinton to at least six separate individuals and potentially many more demonstrates just how big of a risk her decision to use a secret server poses to our national security,"" Republican National Committee research director Raj Shah told CNN.

The probe into Clinton's email practices has now expanded to include some of her top aides as part of a larger investigation on the use of private email accounts by previous secretaries of state. The Republican chairmen of three Senate committees -- intelligence, homeland security and foreign relations -- sent a joint request in March for both inspectors general to investigate the personal emails of Clinton's aides.

""We will follow the facts wherever they lead, to include former aides and associates, as appropriate,"" said Douglas Welty, a spokesman for the State Department's inspector general.

In a July 17 letter to the State Department, Steve A. Linick, the State Department inspector general, said his office is reviewing ""the use of personal communications hardware and software by five secretaries of state and their immediate staffs."" The Office of the Intelligence Community Inspector General is assisting in the review.

One of the emails containing since-classified information was released to the public, prompting the intelligence community to ask the FBI to investigate the possible compromise of classified material. The State Department now has a team of analysts from the intelligence community to review Clinton's emails before any more are released to the public.

Of the two top-secret emails sent to Congress on Tuesday, State Department spokesman John Kirby said they have not been released to the public and the department is ""taking steps to ensure the information is protected and stored appropriately"" while the determination was made.

""Department employees circulated these emails on unclassified systems in 2009 and 2011, and ultimately some were forwarded to Secretary Clinton,"" Kirby said. ""They were not marked as classified